Document migration (#3617)
guardian/grid: docs/05-migration/01-about.md

# Migration

Sometimes also described as reindexing or reingestion.

Image migration is an optional process in the Grid that will create a new index
in the Elasticsearch cluster containing an up-to-date representation of all

> known images. In simple cases, this is akin to the [Elasticsearch Reindex
> API][es-reindex], i.e. moving all documents to a new index using the latest
> version of the mapping, but migration also contains improvements to ensure a
> seamless transition and improved metadata.

Reviewer: I would be hesitate to liken it to reindex API, I think the key thing to convey is that it's rebuilding the ES index from the original image metadata (in S3) AND the user metadata (in DynamoDB) and NOT from the existing ES representation.
```suggestion
known images. Unlike the [Elasticsearch Reindex
API][es-reindex] (i.e. copying all documents to a new index using the latest
version of the mapping) the migration process rebuilds the document  from the original image metadata (in S3) AND the user metadata (in DynamoDB) and NOT from the existing ES representation. 
Migration also contains improvements to ensure a seamless transition and improved metadata.
```

Reviewer 2: I concur: great work, thank you!

Regarding similarities/differences to reindexing, I think this needs to die (or be adjusted):
https://github.com/guardian/grid/blob/main/docs/05-reingestion/01-how-to.md

Similarly, not sure how much of this still applies or how it should change because of migration?
https://github.com/guardian/grid/tree/main/scripts#reindex
&
https://github.com/guardian/grid/tree/main/scripts#updatemapping

Reviewer 2: Thanks (sorry for not spotting binning!)

index in the Elasticsearch cluster. Once an index has been created, its mappings
can be extended but not altered. If a change needs to be made, or a new setting
enabled, the entire index must be replaced. For some usages, the [Elasticsearch
Reindex API][es-reindex] will suffice as a system to move the documents into
this new index, but this does not fulfill all of the Grid's requirements.

For example, the Reindex API will take some time to complete. What should happen
to images that receive updates during the process? If the transition to the new
index is carried out naïvely, such updates will be lost. We also wanted a
process that could be reused to restore the cluster in the event of data loss,
and also to reprocess the metadata embedded in each image file, and take
advantage of any improvements made since the first upload.

## How it works

### High level

While a migration is [in progress](#migration-status-flag), Thrall will
repeatedly query Elasticsearch for images which have [not yet been
migrated](#image-migration-record). Each image ID which is found will be
[projected](#projection), and that projection will be entered into a

> low-priority queue for processing by Thrall when no other updates need to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
low-priority queue (UI interactions are highest priority, then 'automation' like usages, RCS etc, then lowest priority is migration) for processing by Thrall when no other updates need to be
```
